说话人1 00:00
Elon musk. Great to see you. How are you?
说话人2 00:02
Good, how are you?
说话人1 00:04
I we're here at the texas giga factory the day. Before this thing opens. It's been pretty crazy out there. Thank you so much for making time very busy day. I would love you to help us kind of cast our minds. I don't know, 10, 20, maybe 30 years into the future and help us try to picture what it would take to build a future that's worth getting excited about. You've often said it the last time you spoke at 10:00, you said that that was really just a big driver. It's you talk about lots of other reasons to do what you're doing, but fundamentally you want to think about the future and not think that it sucks. Yeah,
说话人2 00:44
absolutely. I think in general, there's there's a lot of discussion of like this problem with that problem, and a lot of people are sad about the future and then that they're pessimistic.
And I think this is this is not great. I we really wanna wake up in the morning and look forward to the future. We want to be excited about what's gonna.
说话人1 01:14
happen.
说话人2 01:15
And life cannot simply be about. I was sort of solving one miserable problem after another.
So.
说话人1 01:22
if you look forward 30 years, this year, The year 2050 has been labeled by scientists as this kind of almost like this doomsday deadline on climate. There's a consensus of scientists, a large consensus of scientists who believe that if we haven't completely eliminated greenhouse gases or offset them completely by 2050, effectively, we're inviting climate catastrophe. Do you believe there is a pathway to avoid that catastrophe? And what would it look like?
说话人2 01:56
I am not one of the doomsday people which makes prize. Iii actually think we're on a good path. Ii but at the same time, ii wanna to caution against complacency. So long as we are not complacent, as long as we are have a high sense of urgency about moving towards a sustainable energy economy, then I think things will be fine.

Iii can't upsize that enough as long as we push hard and are not complacent. The future is gonna be great. Don't worry about it. Ii worry about it, but if you worry about it, I ironically, it will be aa self unfulfilling prophecy. So like, there are three elements to a sustainable energy future. One is of sustainable energy generation, which is primarily wind and solar. There's also hydro geothermal. I'm actually pro nuclear. I I think nuclear is fine. It's gonna be primarily solar and wind as these the primary generators of energy.

The second part is you need batteries to store the solar and wind energy, because the sun is in china all the time, the wind doesn't blow all the time. So you use a lot of stationary battery packs, and then you need electric transport. So electric cars, electric planes, boats. And then ultimately, it's not really possible to make electric rockets, but you can make the propellant unusual. And rockets are using sustainable energy. Right? So ultimately, we can have a fully sustainable energy economy. And it's those three things, solar wind, stationary battery, back, electric vehicles. So then what are the limiting factors on progress? The limiting factor really will be battery cell production. So that's gonna really be the fundamental rate driver. And then whatever the slowest element of the whole lithium ion battery cells, supply chain from mining and the many steps of refining to ultimately creating a battery cell and putting it into a pack, that will be the limiting factor on progress towards sustainability.

All right?
说话人1 04:16
So we need to talk more about batteries because the key thing that I want to understand like there seems to be a scaling issue here that is kind of amazing and alarming. You have said that you have calculated that the amount of battery production that the world needs for sustainability is 300 terawatt hours of batteries.
说话人2 04:38
That's.
说话人1 04:39
and got.
说话人2 04:39
very rough numbers. And I certainly would invite others to check our calculations, because they may arrive at a different conclusions. But in order to transition, not just current electricity production, but also heating and transport, which roughly triples the amount of electricity that you need. It amounts to approximately 300 terawatt hours of insult capacity.
说话人1 05:06
So we need to give people a sense of how big a task that is. I here we are the giga factory. This is what this is. One of the biggest buildings in the world. When what i've read and tell me if this is still right, is that the goal here is to eventually produce 100 gigawatt hours of batteries here a year. We'll.
说话人2 05:31
probably do more than that, but yes, that's hopefully we get there within a couple of years, right? But.
说话人1 05:38
I so that is.
说话人2 05:41
1 . . 1 terawatt hours, but.
说话人1 05:43
that's still one hundredth of what's needed. How much of the rest of that.

100 is tesla planning to take on between, let's say, between now and 20, 30, twenty, forty when we really need to see the scale up happen.
说话人2 06:01
I these are just guesses. I so please, people that shouldn't hold me to these things. It's not like this is like, what just happens. I'll make some like best guess. And then people in 5 years, there will be some jerk that writes article. Elon said this would happen and it didn't happen. He's a liar and a fool, and it's very annoying when that happens. These are just guesses. This is a conversation. Ii I think tesla probably ends up doing 10 % of that. Roughly.
说话人1 06:36
20, let's say, 2050. We have this amazing 100 % sustainable electric grid made up of some mixture of the sustainable energy sources you talked about. That same grid probably is offering the world really low cost energy, isn't it compared compared with now?

And i'm curious about like, are people entitled to get a little bit excited about the possibilities of that world?
说话人2 07:06
People should be optimistic about the future. The humanity will solve sustainable energy. It will happen if we are continue to push hard. The future is bright. Good. From an energy standpoint. Then it will be possible to also use that energy to do a carbon sequestration. It takes a lot of energy to pull carbon out of the atmosphere, just as because in putting it in the atmosphere, it released energy.

Now, obviously, in order to pull it out, you need to you use a lot of energy, but if you've got a lot of sustainable energy from wind and solar, you can actually sequester carbon. So you can reverse the co two p plus per million of the atmosphere and oceans. And also, you can really have as much water, fresh water as you want. Earth is mostly water. We should call earth water. It's 70 % water by surface area.

Now most that sea water, but it's like we just have to be on the bit that's land, right?
说话人1 08:07
And with energy you can turn seawater into, yes, irrigating, water.
说话人2 08:11
or absolutely at very low cost. Things will be good.
说话人1 08:16
Things will be good.

And also there's other benefits right to this non fossil fuel world where the air is cleaner. And.
说话人2 08:22
exactly because like, like when you burn fossil fuels, there's all these like side reactions and toxic gases of various kinds. And i'd like sort of little particulates that are bad for your lungs, like there's all sorts of bad things that are happening that will go away. And the sky will be cleaner and feel quieter if you're gonna be good.
说话人1 08:46
I want us to switch now to think a bit about artificial intelligence, but the segway there, let you mentioned how annoying it is when people haul you up for bad predictions in the past.

So i'm possibly gonna be annoying now, but ii i'm curious about your time lines and how you predict and how come some things are so amazingly on the money and some aren't.

So when it comes to predicting sales of tesla vehicles, for example, I you kind of been amazing, I think in 2014, when tesla had sold that year 60,000 cars, you said 2020, I think we will do half a million a year. We.
说话人2 09:26
did almost exactly half a million.
说话人1 09:27
You did almost exactly haven't it. You were scoffed in 2014.
说话人2 09:31
because.
说话人1 09:31
no one since henry ford with the model t had come close to that kind of growth rate.
说话人2 09:37
for cars.
说话人1 09:38
You were scoffed and you actually hit 500,000 cars and 510,000 or whatever produced.

But 5 years ago, last time you came to ted, I asked you about for self driving, and you said, yep, this very year where I am confident that we will have a car going from la to new york without any intervention.
说话人2 10:00
Yeah, iii don't want to blow your mind, but i'm not always right. But so.
说话人1 10:05
talk, what's the difference between those two? Why? Why has full self driving in particular, been so hard to predict.
说话人2 10:13
I the thing that really got me. And I think it's gonna get a lot of other people is that there are just so many false dawns with self driving where you think, you think you've got the problem, have a handle on the problem, and then it nope, it turns out you just hit a ceiling.

And because what if you were to plot the progress that the progress looks like a log curve? It's like a series of log curves. So most people don't like good business, but it.
说话人1 10:45
shows.
说话人2 10:46
it goes up sort of a fairly straight way, and then it starts tailing off. And you start and there's a kind of getting diminishing returns. Yeah. And you're like, it was trending up. And now it's sort of curving over and not. And you start getting to these, what I call a local maxima, where you don't realize basically how dummy were, that's, and then it happens again. So, I ultimately, I know these things. And in retrospect, they seem obvious, but in order to solve full self driving properly, actually, just you have to solve real world ai because you said like, what are the road networks designed to work with the design, to work with a biological neural net, our brains, and with a vision, our eyes.

And so in order to make it work with computers, you basically need to solve real world, ai and vision, cause we need we need cameras and silicon neural nets in order to have self driving work for a system that was designed for eyes and biological neural nets.

So I guess when you put it that way, it's sort of like quite obvious that the only way to solve for self driving is to solve real world, ai and sophisticated vision.
说话人1 12:16
What do you feel about the current architecture? Do you think you have an architecture now where there is a chance for the logarithmic curve, not to tell off any anytime soon?
说话人2 12:27
I mentally, these may be an infamous last words, but ii actually am confident that we will solve it this year, that we will exceed. You're so like, what the probability of an accident, what points do you exceed that of the average person? Right? I think we will exceed that this year.
说话人1 12:47
What are you seeing behind the scenes that gives you that confidence? Or.
说话人2 12:50
almost at the point where we have a high quality unified vector space.

Again, in the beginning, we were trying to do this with image recognition on individual eye images. But if you look at one image out of a video, it's actually quite hard to see what's going on without ambiguity. But if you look at a video segment of a few seconds of video that ambiguity resolves, the first thing we have to do is tie all eight cameras together. So the same, they're synchronized so that all the frames are looked at simultaneously and labeled simultaneously by a one person, because we still need human labeling. So that at least they're not labeled at different times by different people in different ways. And then so it's sort of a surround picture.

Then Then a very important part is to add the time dimension. So that you're looking at surround video and you're labeling surround video. This is actually quite difficult to do. From a software standpoint. We had to write our own labeling tools and then create and order labeling. Create order labeling software is to amplify the efficiency of human laborers, because it's quite hard to label, but it takes in beginning. It was taking several hours to label a 10 second video clip. This is not scalable. So basically, what you have to have is you have to have surround video. The that surround video has to be primarily automatically labeled with humans just being editors of nna making slight corrections to the labeling of the video, and then feeding back those corrections into the future order laborer.

So you get the supply will eventually where the order laborer is able to take in vast amounts of video. And with high accuracy automatically label the video for cars, lane lines, drive space. What you're.
说话人1 14:47
saying is that you think the I the result of this is that you are effectively giving the car a three d model of the actual objects that are all around it. It knows what they are, and it knows how fast they are moving.

And the remaining task is to yes, is to predict what the quirky behaviors are that when a pedestrian is walking down the road with a smaller pedestrian that maybe that smaller pedestrian might do something unpredictable or like things like that. You have to build into it before you can really call it safe.
说话人2 15:23
Basically you need to have memory across time and space. What I mean by that is if you because the memory can't be infinite, because it's using up a lot of the computers around.

Basically you have to say how much are you going to try to remember. But like if it's very common for things to be included. So like if you talk about see a pedestrian walking past aa truck, where you saw the pedestrian start on one side of the truck, then they're included by the truck, right? You need, but you need things. You would know intuitively that pressure is going to pop out the other side most likely. And.
说话人1 16:07
computer doesn't know. So you need.
说话人2 16:08
to slow down. I.
说话人1 16:09
a skeptic is gonna say that every year for the last 5 years, you've kind of said, no, this is the year. We are confident that it will be there in a year or two or like it's always been about that far away. But you're we've got a new architecture.

Now you're seeing enough improvement behind the scenes to make you not certain, but but pretty confident that this by the end of this year, what in most not in every city in every circumstance, but in many cities and circumstances, basically the car will be able to drive without interventions safer than a human.
说话人2 16:43
Yes, I the car currently drives me around austin most of the time with no interventions. So it's not like we have over 100,000 people in our full stop driving beta program. So you can look at the videos that they post online.
说话人1 17:02
Okay,
说话人2 17:03
great. And some of.
说话人1 17:04
them are great, and some of them are a little terrifying. I occasionally the car seems to sort of like veer off and scare the hell out of people. But.

still better, but you're behind the scenes looking at the data. You're seeing enough improvement to believe that at this year timeline is.
说话人2 17:22
real. That's what it seems like. I I like say we could be here talking again in the years like another year went by and it didn't happen, but I I think this is the year.
说话人1 17:33
And so in general, when people talk about elon time, I it sounds like you can't just have a general rule that if you predict that something will be done in 6 months, actually, what we should imagine is it's going to be a year, or it's like two x or three x it depends on the type of prediction, some things, I guess things involving software, ai whatever are fundamentally harder to predict than others.

Is there an element that you actually deliberately make aggressive prediction time lines to drive people to be ambitious? And without that, nothing gets done?
说话人2 18:06
Ii generally believe in terms of internal time lines that we want to set the most aggressive timeline that we can, because there's sort of like a low of gas expansion where for schedules, whatever time you set, it's not going to be less than that. It's very rare that will be less than that.

As far as my predictions are concerned, what has to happen in the media is that they will report all the wrong ones and ignore all the right ones. Right? Or when writing an article about me, i've had a long career in multiple industries. If you list my sins, I sound like the worst person on earth. If you put those against the things i've done, right? It makes much more sense. So it's essentially like the longer you do anything. The more mistakes that you will make cumulatively, which if you sum up, those mistakes will sound like. I'm the worst predictor ever.

But for example, for a tesla vehicle growth, ii said, I think we do 50 % and we've done 80 %. Yes. So, but they don't mention that one. So I i'm not sure what my exact track record is on predictions. They're more optimistic than pessimistic, but they're not all optimistic. Some of them are exceeded probably more or later, but they they do come true. It's very rare that they do not come true. It's sort of like, if there's some radical technology prediction, the point is not that it was a few years late, but that it happened at all. That's the more important part.

So.
说话人1 19:46
it feels like at some point in the last year, seeing the progress on understanding that ai the tesla ai understanding the world around it, led to a kind of and moment it does because you really surprised people recently when you said probably the most important product development going on at tesla this year is this robot optimus. Many companies out there have tried to put out, these robots have been working on them for years, and so far no one has really cracked it. There's no mass adoption, robot in people's homes. There are some in manufacturing, but it like I would say that no one's kind of really cracked it. What is it something that happened in the development of full step driving that gave you the confidence to say what we could do? Something special?
说话人2 20:37
Yeah, exactly. So it took me a while to realizes that in order to solve self driving, you really need to solve real world ai at the point at which you solve real world ai for a car, which is really a robot on four wheels, you can then generalize that to a robot on legs as well.

The two hard parts, I think, like it's not, obviously, companies like boston dynamics have shown that it's possible to make quite compelling, sometimes alarming robots, right? This is from a sensor is an actuator standpoint. It certainly been demonstrated by many that it's possible to make a human right robot. The thing that the things that are currently missing are it enough intelligence, enough intel intelligence for the robot to navigate the real world and do useful things? Without being explicitly instructed it is.

So the missing things are basically real world. Intelligence and scaling up manufacturing. Those are two things that tesla is very good at. And so then we basically just need to design the specialized actuator and sensors that are needed for a human like robot. People have no idea this is gonna be bigger than the car.
说话人1 21:50
So let's dig into exactly that I in one way, it's actually an easier problem than full self driving, because you instead of an object going along at 60 miles an hour, which if it gets it wrong, someone will die. This is an object that's engineered to only go what? 3 or 4 or 5 miles an hour.
说话人2 22:06
walking speed. And.
说话人1 22:07
so a mistake is that there aren't lives at stake. There might be embarrassment at stakes, always.
说话人2 22:12
the ai doesn't take it over and yeah,
说话人1 22:14
right, and.
说话人2 22:15
murderous now sleep or something,
说话人1 22:17
right?

But but so talk about, I ii think the first applications you've mentioned are probably going to be manufacturing, but eventually the vision is to to have these available for people at home, correct? If you had a robot that really understood the three d architecture of your house and knew where every object in that house was or was supposed to be and could recognize all those objects. I that's kind of amazing. Isn't that like that? The kind of thing that you could ask a robot to do would be what like tidy up?
说话人2 22:54
Absolutely,
说话人1 22:55
or.
说话人2 22:56
make dinner. I guess. So mow the lawn,
说话人1 22:59
take a cup of tea to grandma, and show her family pictures.
说话人2 23:03
to exactly take care of my grandmother and make sure exactly.
说话人1 23:08
when he could recognize, obviously recognize everyone in the home could play catch with your kids.
说话人2 23:13
Yes, I obviously we need to be careful that this doesn't become a dystopian situation.

Like I think one of the things that's gonna be important is to have a localized rum chip on the robot that cannot be updated over the air. Where if you, for example, were to say, stop, that would if anyone said that, then the robot would stop type of thing, and that's not updatable remotely. I think it's gonna be important to have safety features like that.
说话人1 23:41
Yeah, that sounds.
说话人2 23:43
wise. And I do think there should be a regulatory agency for ai i've said that for many years, I I don't love being regulated, but I I think this is an important thing for public safety.
说话人1 23:51
Let's come back to that, but i'm just ii don't think many people have really sort of taken seriously the notion of aa robot at home.

I at the start of the computing revolution, bill gates said there's going to be a computer in every home and people at the time said whatever who would even want that.
说话人2 24:08
He did that was a computer in our pocket.
说话人1 24:09
Do you think there will be basically like in save 2050 or whatever that like? A robot in most homes is what they will be and people that will I.
说话人2 24:18
think they probably want to count on them. You.
说话人1 24:20
have your own butler basically.
说话人2 24:22
You'll have your sort of buddy robot. Probably I.
说话人1 24:27
how much of a buddy do you like to do? How many applications you thought is that? Can you have a romantic partner, sex.
说话人2 24:32
partner? I that's probably inevitable. I I did promise the internet that I would make cackles how we could make a robot cackle. I.
说话人1 24:41
I.
说话人2 24:42
I.
说话人1 24:43
was into that.
说话人2 24:44
I guess it'll be whatever people want, really. So.
说话人1 24:52
what sort of timeline should we be thinking about of the first models that are actually made and sold?
说话人2 25:01
The first units that we tend to make are for jobs that are dangerous, boring, repetitive, and things that people don't want to do. And ii think we'll have like an interesting prototype. Sometime this year, we might have something useful next year, but I think quite likely within at least 2 years. And then we'll see rapid growth year over year of the usefulness of the human rights robots and decrease in cost and scaling up production.
说话人1 25:29
Initially just selling to businesses. Or when do you picture yourself, you'll start selling them where you can buy your parents one for christmas or something until.
说话人2 25:39
less than 10 years.
说话人1 25:40
How help me on the economics of this?

So what do you picture the cost of one of these being?
说话人2 25:47
I think the cost is actually not gonna be crazy, high, like less than a car. Initially things will be expensive because it'll be new technology at low production volume. The complexity and cost of a car is greater than that of a human right robot. I would expect that it's gonna be less than a car or at least equivalent to a cheap.
说话人1 26:07
car. So even if it starts at 50 k within a few years, it's down to 20 k or lower or whatever to. And maybe for home they'll get much cheaper still. But think about the economics of this.

If you can Replace a $30,000, $40,000 a year worker, which you have to pay every year with a one time payment of $25,000 for a robot that can work longer hours, a pretty rapid replacement of certain types of jobs. How worried should the world be about that?
说话人2 26:39
I wouldn't worry about the sort of putting people out of a job thing. I think we're actually going to have and already do have a massive shortage of labor. So iii I think we will have and not people out of work, but actually still a shortage labor even in the future. But this really will be a world of abundance. Any goods and services will be available to anyone who wants them that it'll be so cheap to have goods and services will be ridiculous.
说话人1 27:11
And presumably it should be possible to imagine a bunch of goods and services that can't profitably be made now, but could be made in that world courtesy of religions of.
说话人2 27:22
robots.

It will be a world of abundance. The only scarcity that will exist in the future is that which we decide to create ourselves as humans,
说话人1 27:32
ai is allowing us to imagine a differently powered economy that will create this abundance. What are you most worried about going wrong?
说话人2 27:42
Like I said, ai and robotics will bring bring out what might be termed the age of abundance. Other people have used this word, and that this is my prediction will be an age of abundance for everyone. I guess there's the dangers would be the artificial general intelligence or digital super intelligence, d couples from a collective human will and goes in the direction that for some reason, we don't like whatever direction might go.

That's sort of the the idea behind neural link is to try to more tightly couple collective human will to digital super intelligence. And also, along the way, solve a lot of brain injuries and spinal injuries and that kind of thing. So even if it doesn't succeed in the greater goal, it will so I think it will succeed in the goal of alleviating brain and spine damage.
说话人1 28:48
The spirit there is that if we're going to make these a is that are so vastly intelligent, we ought to be wide directly to them so that we ourselves can have those superpowers more directly. But that doesn't seem to avoid the risk that those superpowers might turn ugly in an unintended.
说话人2 29:07
way. No, I think it's a risk. I agree. I I i'm not saying that I have some a certain answer to that risk. I'm i'm just saying like maybe one of the things that would be good for ensuring that the future is, one that we want is to more tightly couple the human world, collective human world to digital intelligence.

The issue that we face here is that we are already a sidewalk. If you think about it, the computers are an extension of ourselves. And when we die, there's like we have like a digital ghost, all of our text messages and social media emails. And it's quite eerie, actually when someone dies. And they're but everything online is still there. But you say like, what's the limitation? What is it that inhibits human machine symbiosis? It's the data rate. When you communicate, especially with the phone, you're moving your thumbs, right? Very slowly. So you're moving your two little meat sticks.

at a rate, that's maybe 10 bits per second, optimistically, 100 bits per second. And computers are are communicating at the gigabit level and beyond. Have you.
说话人1 30:26
seen evidence that the technology is actually working that you've got a richer sort of higher bandwidth connection? If you between, like, external electronics and a brain that has been possible before,
说话人2 30:37
I the fundamental principles of reading neurons.

So doing rewrite on neurons with tiny electrodes have been demonstrated for decades. So it's not like this is the concept is new, what the problem is that there is no product that works well, that you can go and buy. So it's all sort of in research labs. Right? It's like those words, like some chords sticking out of your head. And it's quite gruesome. And it's really there's no good product that actually does a good job and is high bandwidth and safe and something you'd actually that you could buy and would want to buy.

But in it, the way to think of the neural device is kind of like a fit bit or an apple watch. That's where we take out as a sort of a small section of skull about the size of 1/4 replace that with what in many ways really is very much like if it put apple watch or some kind of smart watch thing. And but with tiny wires, very, very tiny wires tied to wires, so tiny, it's hard to even see them. And it's very important to have very tiny wires that when they're implanted, they don't damage the brain. How far are.
说话人1 32:10
you from putting these into humans?
说话人2 32:13
Iii we have put in our fda application to have the aspiration due to the first human implant this year.
说话人1 32:23
The first uses will be for neurological injuries of different kinds,
说话人2 32:27
but.
说话人1 32:28
rolling the clock forward and imagining when people are actually using these for their own enhancement, let's say, and for the enhancement of the world to how clear are you in your mind as to what it will feel like to have one of these inside your head?
说话人2 32:45
Ii do want to exercise we're out of at an early stage. It really will be many years before we have anything approximating a high bandwidth neural interface that allows for ai human symbiosis. For many years, we will just be solving brain injuries and spinal injuries from probably a decade. And this is not something that will suddenly one day. It'll will have this incredible sort of whole brain interface. It's gonna be, like I said, at least a decade of really just solving brain injuries and spinal injuries. And really, I think you can solve a very wide range of brain injuries, including severe depression, more obesity, sleep.

It's potentially schizophrenia like a lot of things that cause right? Great stress to people, restoring memory in all the people.
说话人1 33:51
If you can pull that off, that's the app I will sign up for.
说话人2 33:55
Ii.
说话人1 33:56
ii would please hurry.
说话人2 33:58
Actually, ii the the emails that we get at neural link are heartbreaking. I they'll send us just tragic where someone was sort of in the prime of life. And and they had an accident on a motorcycle. And someone who's 25 is it can't even feed themselves. And this is something we could fix.
说话人1 34:24
But you have said that ai is one of the things you're most worried about, and that neural link may be one of the ways where we can keep abreast of it. Or I.
说话人2 34:35
there's the short term thing, which I think is helpful on an individual human level with injuries.

And then the long term thing is an attempt to address the civilization risk of ai by bringing digital intelligence and biological intelligence closer together. I if you think of how the brain works today, there are really kind of two layers of the brain. There's the limbic system and the cortex. You've got the kind of animal brain where it's kind of like the fun part really.
说话人1 35:08
So most of twitter operates, by the way,
说话人2 35:10
I we're I think like tim evans said this, we're like somebody's stuck a computer on a monkey. So we're like, if you gave a monkey, aa computer, that's our cortex, but we still have a lot of monkey instincts. Right? So which we then try to rationalize is, no, it's not a monkey instinct. It's something more important than that, but it's often just really a monkey instinct. We're just monkeys with a computer stylist so stuck in our brain. But even though the cortex is sort of the smart or the intelligent part of the brain, the thinking part of the brain, people are quite, i've not yet met anyone who wants to delete the limbic system or their cortex. They're quite happy having both everyone wants both parts of their brain.

And people really want their phones and their computers which are really the tertiary the third part of your intelligence. It's just that it's like so that it but bandwidth, the rate of communication with that tertiary layer is slow. And it's just a very tiny stroll to this tertiary layer. And we want to make that tiny straw, aa big highway. And I i'm definitely not saying that this is going to solve everything or it's the only thing it's it is something that might be helpful.

And worst case scenario. I think we solve some important brain injury, spinal injury issues, and that's still a great outcome. Right?
说话人1 36:38
Best case scenario, we may discover new human possibility, telepathy. You've spoken of in a way of connection with a loved one full memory and much faster thought process, maybe what these things. It's very cool. If ai were to take down earth, we need a plan b let's shift our attention to space. We spoke last summer to about reusability. And you had just demonstrated that spectacularly for the first time. Since then you've gone on to build this monster, rocket starship, which kind of changes the rules of the game and in spectacular ways tell us about starship, yes.
说话人2 37:22
Such as extremely fundamental. So the holy grail of of rocketry or space transport is full and rapid reusability. This has never been achieved the closest that anything has come as our falcon nine rocket where we are able to recover the press.

The first stage, the boost age, which is I probably about 60 % of the cost of the vehicle of the whole launch, maybe 70 %. And we've not done that over 100 times. So with starship, we will be recovering the entire thing. That's at least that's the goal, right? And more of a recovering it in such a way that it can be immediately reflowed. Whereas with falcon nine, we still need to do some amount of refurbishment to the booster and to the ferry one nose cone. But with starship, the design goal is immediate re flight. Right? So you just refill propellants and go again. And this is gigantic. It just as it would be in any other mode of transporting.
说话人1 38:33
And the main design is to basically take what 100 plus people at a time plus a bunch of things that they need to mars.

So talk, first of all, talk about that piece. What is your latest timeline? One for the first time, a starship goes to mars, presumably without people, but just equipment two with people, three, the sort of 100 people at a time. Let's go.
说话人2 39:04
Sure. And I just put the cost thing into perspective. The cost of the expected cost of starship putting 100 tons into orbit is significantly less than it would have cost to go what it did cost to put out our tiny falcon one rocket into orbit, just as the cost of flying a seven, 47 around the world is less than the cost of a small airplane if a smaller plane that was thrown away.

It's really pretty mind boggling that the giant thing cost less, way less than the small thing. So it doesn't use sort of exotic propellant or things that are difficult to obtain on mars. It uses. Methane is fuel, it is primarily oxygen. It's sort of roughly 77, 78 % oxygen by weight. And mars has aco two atmosphere and has water ice, which is co two plus h two o you can make ch four methane and o two oxygen.
说话人1 40:11
On mars is really one of the first task on mars will be to create.